The Page Act of 1875 ( Immigration Act) 
FORTY-THIRD CONGRESS. SESS. II. CH. 141. 1875. 
CHAP. 141.-An act supplementary to the acts in relation to immigration. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America 
in Congress assembled, That in determining whether the immigration of any subject of 
China, Japan, or any Oriental country, to the United States, is free and voluntary, as 
provided by section two thousand one hundred and sixty-two of the Revised Code, title 
"Immigration," it shall be the duty of the consul-general or consul of the United States 
residing at the port from which it is proposed to convey such subjects, in any vessels 
enrolled or licensed in the United States, or any port within the same, before delivering to 
the masters of any such vessels the permit or certificate provided for in such section, to 
ascertain whether such immigrant bas entered into a contract or agreement for a term of 
service within the United States, for lewd and immoral purposes; and if there be such 
contract or agreement, the said consul-general or consul shall not deliver the required 
permit or certificate. 
SEC. 2. That if any citizen of the United States, or other person amenable to the laws of 
the United States shall take, or cause to be taken or transported, to or from the United 
States any subject of China, Japan, or any Oriental country, without their free and 
voluntary consent, for the purpose of holding them to a term of service, such citizen or 
other person shall be liable to be indicted therefore, and, on conviction of such offense, 
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding two thousand dollars and be imprisoned not 
exceeding one year; and all contracts and agreements for a term of service of such 
persons in the United States, whether made in advance or in pursuance of such illega1 
importation, and whether such importation shall have been in American or other vessels, 
are hereby declared void. 
SEC. 3. That the importation into the United States of women for the purposes of 
prostitution is hereby forbidden; and all contracts and agreements in relation thereto, 
made in advance or in pursuance of such illegal importation and purposes, are hereby 
dec1ared void; and whoever shall knowingly and willfully import, or cause any 
importation of, women into the United States for the purposes of prostitution, or shall 
knowingly or willfully hold, or attempt to hold, any woman to such purposes, in 
pursuance of such illegal importation and contract or agreement, shall be deemed guilty 
of a felony, and, on conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned not exceeding five years and 
pay a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars. 
SEC. 4. That if any person shal1 knowing1y and willfully contract, or attempt to contract, 
in advance or in pursuance of such illegal importation, to supply to another the labor of 
any cooly or other person brought into the United States in violation of section two 
thousand one hundred and fifty-eight of the Revised Statutes, or of any other section of 
the 1aws prohibiting the cooly-trade or of this act, such person shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and, upon conviction thereof, in any United States court, shall be fined in a sum 
not exceeding five hundred dol1ars and imprisoned for a term not exceeding one year. 
SEC. 5. That it shall be unlawful for aliens of the following classes to immigrate into the 
United States, namely, persons who are undergoing a sentence for conviction in their own 
country of felonious crimes other than political or growing out of or the result of such 
political offenses, or whose sentence has been remitted on condition of their emigration, 
and women "imported for the purposes of prostitution." Every vessel arriving in the 
United States may be inspected under the direction of the collector of the port at which it 
arrives, if he shall have reason to believe that any such obnoxious persons are on board; 
and the officer making such inspection shall certify the result thereof to the master or 
other person in charge of such vessel, designating in such certificate the person or 
persons, if any there be, ascertained by him to be of either of the c1asses whose 
importation is hereby forbidden. When such inspection is required by the collector as 
aforesaid, it shal1 be unlawful without his permission, for any alien to leave any such 
vessel arriving in the United States from a foreign country until the inspection shall have 
been had and the result certified as herein provided; and at no time thereafter shall any 
alien certified to by the inspecting officer as being of either of the classes whose 
immigration is forbidden by this section, be allowed to land in the United States, except 
in obedience to a judicial process issued pursuant to law. If any person shall feel 
aggrieved by the certificate of such inspecting officer stating him or her to be within 
either of the classes whose immigration is forbidden by this section, and shall apply for 
release or other remedy to any proper court or judge, then it shall be the duty of the 
collector at said port of entry to detain said vessel until a hearing and determination of the 
matter are had, to the end that if the said inspector shall be found to be in accordance with 
this section and sustained, the obnoxious person or persons shall be returned on board of 
said vessel, and shall not thereafter be permitted to land, unless the master, owner or 
consignee of the vessel shall give bond and security, to be approved by the court or judge 
hearing the cause, in the sum of five hundred dollars for each such person permitted to 
land, conditioned for the return of such person, within six months from the date thereof, 
to the country whence his or her emigration shall have taken place, or unless the vessel 
bringing such obnoxious person or persons shall be forfeited, in which event the proceeds 
of such forfeiture shall be paid over to the collector of the port of arrival, and applied by 
him, as far as necessary, to the return of such person or persons to his or her own country 
within the said period of six months. And for all violations of this act, the vessel, by the 
acts, omissions, or connivance of the owners, master, or other custodian, or the 
consignees of which the same are committed, shall be liable to forfeiture, and may be 
proceeded against as in cases of frauds against the revenue laws, for which forfeiture is 
prescribed by existing law. 
Approved March 3, 1875. 
