REAL ID Act – Title II
1
H.R.1268
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War
on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005 (Enrolled as Agreed to or Passed by
Both House and Senate)
TITLE II--IMPROVED SECURITY FOR DRIVERS' LICENSES AND
PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION CARDS
SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.
In this title, the following definitions apply:
(1) DRIVER'S LICENSE- The term `driver's license' means a motor
vehicle operator's license, as defined in section 30301 of title 49,
United States Code.
(2) IDENTIFICATION CARD- The term `identification card' means a
personal identification card, as defined in section 1028(d) of title 18,
United States Code, issued by a State.
(3) OFFICIAL PURPOSE- The term `official purpose' includes but is not
limited to accessing Federal facilities, boarding federally regulated
commercial aircraft, entering nuclear power plants, and any other
purposes that the Secretary shall determine.
(4) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of
Homeland Security.
(5) STATE- The term `State' means a State of the United States, the
District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American
Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
SEC. 202. MINIMUM DOCUMENT REQUIREMENTS AND
ISSUANCE STANDARDS FOR FEDERAL RECOGNITION.
(a) Minimum Standards for Federal Use-
(1) IN GENERAL- Beginning 3 years after the date of the enactment of
this division, a Federal agency may not accept, for any official purpose,
a driver's license or identification card issued by a State to any person
unless the State is meeting the requirements of this section.
(2) STATE CERTIFICATIONS- The Secretary shall determine whether a
State is meeting the requirements of this section based on
certifications made by the State to the Secretary. Such certifications
shall be made at such times and in such manner as the Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, may prescribe by
regulation.
(b) Minimum Document Requirements- To meet the requirements of this
section, a State shall include, at a minimum, the following information and
REAL ID Act – Title II
2
features on each driver's license and identification card issued to a person by
the State:
(1) The person's full legal name.
(2) The person's date of birth.
(3) The person's gender.
(4) The person's driver's license or identification card number.
(5) A digital photograph of the person.
(6) The person's address of principle residence.
(7) The person's signature.
(8) Physical security features designed to prevent tampering,
counterfeiting, or duplication of the document for fraudulent purposes.
(9) A common machine-readable technology, with defined minimum
data elements.
(c) Minimum Issuance Standards-
(1) IN GENERAL- To meet the requirements of this section, a State
shall require, at a minimum, presentation and verification of the
following information before issuing a driver's license or identification
card to a person:
(A) A photo identity document, except that a non-photo identity
document is acceptable if it includes both the person's full legal
name and date of birth.
(B) Documentation showing the person's date of birth.
(C) Proof of the person's social security account number or
verification that the person is not eligible for a social security
account number.
(D) Documentation showing the person's name and address of
principal residence.
(2) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS-
(A) IN GENERAL- To meet the requirements of this section, a
State shall comply with the minimum standards of this
paragraph.
(B) EVIDENCE OF LAWFUL STATUS- A State shall require, before
issuing a driver's license or identification card to a person, valid
documentary evidence that the person--
(i) is a citizen or national of the United States;
(ii) is an alien lawfully admitted for permanent or
temporary residence in the United States;
(iii) has conditional permanent resident status in the
United States;
(iv) has an approved application for asylum in the United
States or has entered into the United States in refugee
status;
(v) has a valid, unexpired nonimmigrant visa or
nonimmigrant visa status for entry into the United States;
(vi) has a pending application for asylum in the United
States;
(vii) has a pending or approved application for temporary
protected status in the United States;
REAL ID Act – Title II
3
(viii) has approved deferred action status; or
(ix) has a pending application for adjustment of status to
that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence
in the United States or conditional permanent resident
status in the United States.
(C) TEMPORARY DRIVERS' LICENSES AND IDENTIFICATION
CARDS-
(i) IN GENERAL- If a person presents evidence under any
of clauses (v) through (ix) of subparagraph (B), the State
may only issue a temporary driver's license or temporary
identification card to the person.
(ii) EXPIRATION DATE- A temporary driver's license or
temporary identification card issued pursuant to this
subparagraph shall be valid only during the period of time
of the applicant's authorized stay in the United States or,
if there is no definite end to the period of authorized stay,
a period of one year.
(iii) DISPLAY OF EXPIRATION DATE- A temporary driver's
license or temporary identification card issued pursuant to
this subparagraph shall clearly indicate that it is
temporary and shall state the date on which it expires.
(iv) RENEWAL- A temporary driver's license or temporary
identification card issued pursuant to this subparagraph
may be renewed only upon presentation of valid
documentary evidence that the status by which the
applicant qualified for the temporary driver's license or
temporary identification card has been extended by the
Secretary of Homeland Security.
(3) VERIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS- To meet the requirements of this
section, a State shall implement the following procedures:
(A) Before issuing a driver's license or identification card to a
person, the State shall verify, with the issuing agency, the
issuance, validity, and completeness of each document required
to be presented by the person under paragraph (1) or (2).
(B) The State shall not accept any foreign document, other than
an official passport, to satisfy a requirement of paragraph (1) or
(2).
(C) Not later than September 11, 2005, the State shall enter
into a memorandum of understanding with the Secretary of
Homeland Security to routinely utilize the automated system
known as Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements, as
provided for by section 404 of the Illegal Immigration Reform
and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (110 Stat. 3009-664),
to verify the legal presence status of a person, other than a
United States citizen, applying for a driver's license or
identification card.
REAL ID Act – Title II
4
(d) Other Requirements- To meet the requirements of this section, a State
shall adopt the following practices in the issuance of drivers' licenses and
identification cards:
(1) Employ technology to capture digital images of identity source
documents so that the images can be retained in electronic storage in
a transferable format.
(2) Retain paper copies of source documents for a minimum of 7 years
or images of source documents presented for a minimum of 10 years.
(3) Subject each person applying for a driver's license or identification
card to mandatory facial image capture.
(4) Establish an effective procedure to confirm or verify a renewing
applicant's information.
(5) Confirm with the Social Security Administration a social security
account number presented by a person using the full social security
account number. In the event that a social security account number is
already registered to or associated with another person to which any
State has issued a driver's license or identification card, the State shall
resolve the discrepancy and take appropriate action.
(6) Refuse to issue a driver's license or identification card to a person
holding a driver's license issued by another State without confirmation
that the person is terminating or has terminated the driver's license.
(7) Ensure the physical security of locations where drivers' licenses
and identification cards are produced and the security of document
materials and papers from which drivers' licenses and identification
cards are produced.
(8) Subject all persons authorized to manufacture or produce drivers'
licenses and identification cards to appropriate security clearance
requirements.
(9) Establish fraudulent document recognition training programs for
appropriate employees engaged in the issuance of drivers' licenses and
identification cards.
(10) Limit the period of validity of all driver's licenses and identification
cards that are not temporary to a period that does not exceed 8 years.
(11) In any case in which the State issues a driver's license or
identification card that does not satisfy the requirements of this
section, ensure that such license or identification card--
(A) clearly states on its face that it may not be accepted by any
Federal agency for federal identification or any other official
purpose; and
(B) uses a unique design or color indicator to alert Federal
agency and other law enforcement personnel that it may not be
accepted for any such purpose.
(12) Provide electronic access to all other States to information
contained in the motor vehicle database of the State.
(13) Maintain a State motor vehicle database that contains, at a
minimum--
(A) all data fields printed on drivers' licenses and identification
cards issued by the State; and
REAL ID Act – Title II
5
(B) motor vehicle drivers' histories, including motor vehicle
violations, suspensions, and points on licenses.
SEC. 203. TRAFFICKING IN AUTHENTICATION FEATURES FOR
USE IN FALSE IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENTS.
(a) Criminal Penalty- Section 1028(a)(8) of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by striking `false authentication features' and inserting `false or
actual authentication features'.
(b) Use of False Driver's License at Airports-
(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall enter, into the appropriate
aviation security screening database, appropriate information
regarding any person convicted of using a false driver's license at an
airport (as such term is defined in section 40102 of title 49, United
States Code).
(2) FALSE DEFINED- In this subsection, the term `false' has the same
meaning such term has under section 1028(d) of title 18, United
States Code.
SEC. 204. GRANTS TO STATES.
(a) In General- The Secretary may make grants to a State to assist the State
in conforming to the minimum standards set forth in this title.
(b) Authorization of Appropriations- There are authorized to be appropriated
to the Secretary for each of the fiscal years 2005 through 2009 such sums as
may be necessary to carry out this title.
SEC. 205. AUTHORITY.
(a) Participation of Secretary of Transportation and States- All authority to
issue regulations, set standards, and issue grants under this title shall be
carried out by the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of
Transportation and the States.
(b) Extensions of Deadlines- The Secretary may grant to a State an
extension of time to meet the requirements of section 202(a)(1) if the State
provides adequate justification for noncompliance.
SEC. 206. REPEAL.
Section 7212 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of
2004 (Public Law 108-458) is repealed.
SEC. 207. LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.
REAL ID Act – Title II
6
Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect the authorities or
responsibilities of the Secretary of Transportation or the States under chapter
303 of title 49, United States Code.